okay
give me one moment and we'll start
you
okay
excellent hello welcome to the welcome
to the ipfs weekly meeting where we get
a chance to talk and see the exciting
projects that are being built around
ipfs the first thing that we're going to
the first thing we're going to do is go
over announcements then we will get into
our main presentation from stand up by
Sandra pink about textile photos which
is pretty interesting hello hi I can
hear everyone um and we will end with a
Q & A section so I suggest have a look
at the agenda does anyone have anything
they would like to announce before we
get into our main presentation
um looking for hands oh I see something
here yes I'm looking at
looks like a no we will begin with our
main presentation then so the under
lease take it away okay can everyone
hear me as changed my mic okay okay all
right so everyone my name is sander I
work with textile photos we originally
started because we wanted to build a
real useful application on top of IP FS
and we figured that mobile was the place
to do it because it didn't seem like a
lot of people were attacking that space
and slowly over time we've kind of grown
our vision our mission is for own more
into wanting to provide a a more like a
distributed database and application
platform kind of like a we like to think
of it as a decentralized iCloud so let
me if I can share my screen here I'm not
familiar with zoom so there was think
there's a green thing at the bottom of
the zoom window that's his share
like we that narrow looks like you got
it excellent okay so what is textile
this is with a modified version of our
readme so it's really texty
so again really think of textiles
providing an encrypted recoverable
schema based and cross application data
storage built on IP ffs and loop p2p and
we think of it as like a decentralized
iCloud in the future or the splits kind
of our mission decentralize an overnight
cloud that developers and users can
build upon so the what we want to enable
people to do with textile and talk about
users is to the applications and
services securely store your photos
videos documents or any other type of
file chat with friends and family and
access your data from anywhere wherever
you are so these are kind of a poor if
you look at it if you look at the core
values of iCloud we're sort of trying to
match those so iCloud you know it's a
great place for your photos or files
it's accessible wherever you are it's
safe its up-to-date you can you know you
can take your files with you you can put
any type of file in there you can
collaborate with others and you think of
it's like you know your messages if
you're if you're an Apple user few
thousand devices your messages are part
of our cloud you go over the
applications that you use are all fired
by cloud obvious is your data so we
thought about this we originally tax
tacking photos because photos are just a
really easy type of
data to think about in terms of like
user ownership so everyone understands
what you can do with photos people
understand you know they there's
different types of privacy around your
photos you don't want your entire camera
roll to the beat open to the public but
you might you know want to share with
specific groups and so I'll skip some of
this stuff we are trying to enable
people to build other apps like textile
photos we have a mobile SDK that you can
plug in for iOS and Android and we're
trying to build it as something that
just for the average application
developer is someone that might not
really be sold on decentralization this
is fairly but that they can dive into
and actually find that it makes their
life easier so like they can maybe skip
these are management's they have a you
know like a data storage taking care of
messaging so something like a firebase
or a realm for those of you familiar
with that kind of stuff so how does it
work
the at the core of textile is what we
think of as this account wallet so it's
an HD wallet it's kind of inspired by
Stellar's wallet it's backed by a monic
phrase so you can generate all these any
number of deterministic accounts in in
this wallet and then you would use each
one of those to initialize the textile
node and that's how your data the syncs
between your different devices at a high
level so the the main sort of most
important data structure is this concept
of operation based grtt the recall a
thread so there's different types
of updates to go into the threads rich
peers joining leaving data being added
comments messages and it's really just
to get like half Street where each you
know if there's a case where margins
happen which is almost all the time
because if you're in the mobile world
you're always going on an offline so you
get out of the sink really fast so we
end up having this really wide patch
Street but this is our sort of our first
stab at this
that's really not terribly complicated
it's just there's a deterministic merge
rule that happens it basically just
takes the earlier date and creates
another block in the thread that can be
recreated on other peers so like if they
have the same few parents we know there
will always result in the same exact
block ash so all these all these little
updates we call them blocks are stored
on a DFS and because they're hash sync
together you can traverse back and
recover a thread or if you're joining a
thread of someone else's thread you can
Traverse back and get all the older
history and be here so this is an
example here I know this looks terrible
explode up like this okay so here is an
example hypothetical users account
wallet so they've got these different
accounts and let's say that in their
first account they have these certain
threads so we actually tracked
your different devices and these could
be other apps with with the thread so it
only tracks joins and leaves of those
peers and then this might be like
someone's camera roll and it's a private
thread that all the peers from that
account of join let's say and I've
started adding files and they might have
like some videos or we're like a chat
thread so forget into him like that icon
analogy you've got your photos your your
different chapter Ed's and C so one of
the other large components of this
system is what we call Kathy nodes so
because obviously we want to do
everything we can peer-to-peer but
because of the need for in the mobile
world you want to really handle offline
robustly so you run into that all the
time
so what we do is we put the same text on
notes up into the cloud we run we run
them in on Amazon and they provide
offline name boxing services to other
peers so if I send you a message and
you're offline I will I will know I
better from the previous thread that
I've been with you or from your IPS user
profile I'll know where your inboxes are
so I can send to your various kind of
item boxes and then come back on those
messages so looking at the an own kind
of rambling to ask you this so feel free
to interrupt me at any point
so looking at the internal components
here so obviously we're unlike the efest
node if it's in the in the mobile use
case it's just a client node so it's
only there to be able to traverse the
network and we have two p2p services
there's the threat service that's the
CRB tea service that worthless trinkets
state pink ears and then we have this
cafe service that you can register with
with different nodes and you'll open a
user session just a JWT session and
anytime you've got a data to the network
you'll actually pin it on those cafes
and then there's the offline inboxing
service i mentioned earlier and so
locally you want to be able to like list
the files or photos you've added um type
EFS and that's what this files API is
for there's a similar one for just plain
messages for listing the different
messages in threads and then other
components are is the wallets file
schemas I'll get into in a second and
then this concept of file mills with
related is FEMA's
so one of the core pieces of what we're
doing is trying to make as part of this
decentralize iCloud mission is trying to
make a way for people to easily add
structured data IVFs so we've come up
with this system called it's similar to
the transloaded that i've used in past
lights and which is a really nice
service or if you wanna your application
need to define how like it ingests files
or videos so I want to take this image
and I want to create these multiple
different sizes and thumbnails so I'm
one of maybe extract some exif data I
kind of thing so in textile photos we
actually use a file scheme that looks
like this
so this translates directly into a dag
node and you can define what pieces you
want encrypted and each one of these
links not surprisingly becomes a dag
node like so this setup here says
essentially let's take the raw image
data well in this case it doesn't care
if it's an image so just take the raw
data we want to save the original and
we're gonna send it to translate calls
these robots like encoding robots let me
call them Nils because textile so you
send the raw data to the the vlog mill
that just groups it and stores it not
BFS and then I'm gonna taste the output
from that mill and extracts the exhibit
a dot here that I don't take that
simultaneously it'll take the output
from the raw and we'll create these
different sizes here these things image
at least on the same point so there's
this isn't that what the mobile client
in the mobile world it actually is
running on node in the phone it's not
hitting
remove at any point but you can imagine
if you want to put make this service on
a server and do something similar let's
see so with the results anna's this is
kind of small but a dag instruction that
looks like this so we've got still we
only added one file here so we've just
got one index and you've got all these
different links and then each each link
results in a determined
deed for data link and the /f here which
means it's going to show like the index
of the data so I can show you that so
the reason we do the index of the file
is because because it's the encryption
is not ideally deterministic you know
you don't want to keep adding the same
file over and over so each node locally
will keep track of all the files that
are in its node and you can look up the
pre hash of a file based on it's Puckle
index you can use that with in
combination with the options that were
used to create that file to determine if
it's already in the system so you're not
continually adding the same files so
we're getting close to having a usable
version that you could build on top of
the main pieces were finishing off the
mechanisms for account recovery so we're
doing all the backup to your cafes but
we're missing the piece where you asked
the network for your all your thread
back notes so that's the tip of all your
thread so would just be like given the
online you know in an icon world it's
really easy as Apple hey you're I'm
proving that I am Who I am we do that
they get out with Apple ID ever doing
that with your mnemonic so you say to
the network this is who I am
I need like who's got my stuff basically
so we're doing that with mostly with
pump zones so dedicated channels on all
the cafes that we ask for specific
people users backhoes and just a note
about a final coin we we don't love the
we always I think we see like I need to
have these cafes these federated nodes
this is something like this but in terms
of being the place where everything's
pin
we'd like to swap that out for for five
points every hopefully we would run in
like a file calling node in the textile
cafe we're just curious
excited show some other types of schemas
so you can use a Jason the schemas here
so if your application needs to this
one's kind of pressing like a bird if
you want to ingest log data for example
you could define on Jason's team that
looks like this so it's got you know
this is the forgot the name of the spec
but some log spec requires these fields
and all of those would be anything added
to the thread and then over here really
small but you can I guess the simplest
these gates are the throat bridle is
just like a chat so we have a textile
command line client has a chat self
commands that you can just invite people
to a thread and just start chatting you
know so what's going on here is the each
message is being backed up to their
respective cafes and because I'm local
they're just talking directly to each
other but I was taken offline they would
communicate via the boxing so I am I
think that's pretty overview that was
probably kind of random
thank you very much sander we're
actually going to get into the Q&A part
so if you have a question if you can
just put it in the chat that would be
excellent our our first question is from
Hannah
Hannah are you around yeah hi hi um I I
was a curious about the way you keep
things private I heard the word
encryption does that mean you're
encrypting the blocks at rest
effectively yeah yeah exactly so each
message in thread is encrypted with the
threads the threads key public key so
these are each message is actually a
protocol buffer so if it's pointing to
like a dagger now it or something it
just you know as a hash at that you know
so they're all really really tiny but
the other there would be encrypted by
the threads key
so if I invite you to a thread there's a
couple ways to do that
I can I can take the thread key and I
can encrypt it with your public key or I
can encrypt it with a like at one time
just a es key and put that on my PFS and
then send you a link to that and then if
I somehow give you that if you download
this for like if you're trying to get a
new user man that's a good way to do it
because you can just text that URL so
that it doing that kind of it's like
permanently public anyway so there are
different thread types that we haven't
fully fleshed out there is right now the
ones that are flushed out are open
thread which means anyone can create
invites anyone else and then private
thread which doesn't accept invites and
that would be like for your for your
account for device peers we use an
internal I'm sorry I hate to interrupt
if you don't mind we're actually going
to move on to next question if that's
okay
NAT please I have two questions one is
do you use any of the built-in files
EPA's like MF s for octopus or did you
build all that are you directly
manipulating the tag and you built your
own files related API um and then
totally unrelated are you familiar with
triple-i F the international image
interoperability framework and their API
for images and manipulating images did
you consider using that to use that as a
reference reference but I would think
about schemas and things so the brief um
we don't use that we just you know the
the actual data is still broken up into
into the blocks so it's it's kind of
just more a higher level concept of a
file
and you know file it could be adjacent
objects or but yes it's when you that
was to create a photos schema and then
create a thread with that it does do the
validation so like if I send you a DAC
note that it's supposed to be on it into
that thread my node might reject it
because it will walk that the tag figure
I've required links her in there I look
at the red content types
but in your second question no I
that sounds awesome though I didn't know
about that we should talk about yeah let
me sweets is right right now it's just I
mean I guess I kind of just like it's
fairly analogous to transloaded the
transloaded Scribus in the sense of like
it'll you know walks through step step
wise and what needs to happen but yeah I
mean so we currently only have like a
way to resize images and extract exit
from it but it's it's portable like you
could if you wanted to figure out how to
handle like PDFs or we definitely want
to do video and/or audio whatever so now
it'd be very hard get like a real
respect excellent thank you
next question goes to Davi I have a
bunch so I'm having a hard time like so
yeah this is like amazing work and I am
a full support of creating the firebase
and I know that to the nemi data working
group is also working on some things I'm
wondering if you are familiar with the
work that they are doing and how much of
this is like custom to Spencer and how
much like does it map to to Pierce an
app and Pierce are
and so on
also last week I talked with with with
Pedro and Jeremy and we're definitely
like I really want to to not build like
a castle in the sky custom thing so very
much interested in collaboration and you
know if if there's built in core stuff
that emerges from dynamic data I'd love
to disuse that and yes yeah I'm curious
too and there so like if there are some
specific design decisions of format not
match to the things like that well so oh
yeah pure star so we have these profiles
that's really just a super basic like we
don't if someone had a really nice
identity solution or something like that
it would just we would hope to just plug
that in like we don't we don't really
want to be in a business of creating and
yet another solution there or something
that it requires you yeah in textile so
it would be awesome to be able to you
know in terms of a textile into that
space with you know an existing idea
even even like it it's centralized
IDs bootstrap your camera
[Music]
okay we are going to take one more
question from Jim okay just quickly you
guys have really done great work trying
to get this on iOS and Android and that
seems like incredible engineering effort
I'm very curious about what limits
you've seen with performance and power
consumption and should perform it and
things we can help out with so honestly
I can tell you it's not great it's
definitely it's actually one of the
trickiest things is starting and
stopping the node and all that anyway
around when it comes online the various
things that you can do now when you're
online versus the various things you can
do when it's just started state or you
can like add data to your local node and
stuff like that be can for example use
any two live EVP services so that that's
at this point it would be if you like
it's gonna be cumbersome for just
someone to pick it up and start building
with we really want to improve that
experience but you know the things like
that the ocean better know there any any
numbers around wouldn't we just kind of
like just hope the phones get more
powerful well sander thank you very much
for giving your time and talking about
textile yeah thank you very much we will
be following the developments of textile
photos and yeah if you need help from us
we're I mean you're part could always
ping us
thank you thank you everyone I would
like to also thank Alan for taking notes
and I'll see everyone next week have a
great week
take care bye need enemy in later this
week
[Music]